[DeepSpeed] ZeRO Stage 3 (#10753)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/main_classes/trainer.rst

If you're still struggling with the build, first make sure to read :ref:`zero-install-notes`.

If it's still not resolved the build issue, here are a few more ideas.

``fairscale`` seems to have an issue with the recently introduced by pip build isolation feature. If you have a problem
with it, you may want to try one of:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install fairscale --no-build-isolation .

or:

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairscale/
   cd fairscale
   rm -r dist build
   python setup.py bdist_wheel
   pip uninstall -y fairscale
   pip install dist/fairscale-*.whl

``fairscale`` also has issues with building against pytorch-nightly, so if you use it you may have to try one of:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip uninstall -y fairscale; pip install fairscale --pre \
   -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu110/torch_nightly.html \
   --no-cache --no-build-isolation

or:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -v --disable-pip-version-check . \
   -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu110/torch_nightly.html --pre

> Of course, adjust the urls to match the the cuda version you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, adjust the urls to match the cuda version you use.
```

    EOT

If the training script is in a normal file and not in the notebook cells, you can launch ``deepspeed`` normally via
shell from a cell. For example, to use ``run_translation.py`` you would launch it with:

.. code-block::

>    !cd transformers; deepspeed examples/seq2seq/run_translation.py ...

Reviewer 2: Maybe add the clone command? Users won't have the repo in the current folder otherwise.

or with ``%%bash`` magic, where you can write a multi-line code for the shell program to run:

.. code-block::

   %%bash

>    cd transformers

Reviewer 2: Same here?

**Performance tuning:**

- ``stage3_max_live_parameters``: ``1e9``
- ``stage3_max_reuse_distance``: ``1e9``
- ``stage3_prefetch_bucket_size``: ``0.9 * hidden_size * hidden_size``
- ``stage3_param_persistence_threshold``: ``10 * hidden_size``
- ``reduce_bucket_size``: ``hidden_size*hidden_size``
- ``sub_group_size``: ``1e14``

If hitting OOM reduce ``stage3_max_live_parameters`` and ``stage3_max_reuse_distance``. They should have minimal impact
on performance unless you are doing activation checkpointing. ``1e9`` would consume ~2GB. The memory is shared by
``stage3_max_live_parameters`` and ``stage3_max_reuse_distance``, so its not additive, its just 2GB total.

``stage3_max_live_parameters`` is the upper limit on how many full parameters you want to keep on the GPU at any given
time. "reuse distance" is a metric we are using to figure out when will a parameter be used again in the future, and we
use the ``stage3_max_reuse_distance`` to decide whether to throw away the parameter or to keep it. If a parameter is
going to be used again in near future (less than ``stage3_max_reuse_distance``) then we keep it to reduce communication

> overhead. This is super helpful when you have activation check-pointing enabled, where we do a forward recompute and

Reviewer: Is check-pointing correct? I would say the following is more English, but feel free to ignore if it's not the case!
```suggestion
overhead. This is super helpful when you have activation checkpointing enabled, where we do a forward recompute and
```

``deepspeed_is_zero3_enabled()`` returns ``True``. Therefore to enable this feature here is the required sequence:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers.integrations import deepspeed_is_zero3_enabled
    deepspeed_is_zero3_enabled(True)
    model = T5ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained("t5-small")

If you're using Trainer command line arguments which include ``--deepspeed ds_config.json`` with ZeRO3 config enabled,
then you can skip ``deepspeed_is_zero3_enabled(True)`` as it will try to discover whether it'll be run under zero3 and
``from_pretrained`` will automatically activate this feature.

Note: If the fp16 weights of the model can't fit onto the memory of a single GPU this feature must be used.

For full details on this method and other related features please refer to `Constructing Massive Models
<https://deepspeed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/zero3.html#constructing-massive-models>`__.

External Parameters
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When using ``deepspeed.zero.Init()`` discussed earlier, a layer A may need to access layer B's weights

> XXX: complete

Author: yes, as I mentioned in my last comment I will complete this today. I just needed to know the code changes are accepted before I can finish it up. I will ask you to have a look when I'm done with the docs.
